---
toc: true
layout: base
description: STEM at CSUSM
categories: [markdown, Week 20]
title: STEM at CSUSM
---

### Our Stories

Woman 1:
Got a D in her first trimester for Physics. Both of Them just graduated Cal State San Marcos. Didn't have much guidance in STEM and failed multiple courses in STEM such as Cauclus. Got into reasearch for a lab that she was working on and which made her start her PHD. She feels like Cal State San Marcos allowed her to 

Man 1 (John): Bit of a delinquet in high school. Started in Palomar Colledge, got two associated one of them beign computer science. Pursued Computer Science degree and didn't spend too much time on campus. Finished the bacholer's degree, and talked about the versatility with the degree. 

### About Cal State San Marcos
Cal State San Marcos is one of the newest Cal States and was built in 1989. There are new enegineering building which was built within 5 years as well as a future science building. National Leader of social mobility, and one of theh highest graduate of socio economic status. There are many different companies want to hire graduates such as Qualcomm. 

### Different Pathwa6s
- Chemistry
- BioChemistry
- Physics
- Biological Sciences
- COmputer Engineering
- Computer Information Sciences
- Cybersecurity 
- Multiple different Computer Science Majors
- Algoirth
- Electrical Engineering
- Software Engineering
- Mechanical Engineering is a masters degree option after finishing Applied Physics

### Different Departments
- Physics
- Chemistry and biochemistry
- Biotehnology
- Biological Sciences
- Software Engineering
- Electrical Engineering
- Math
- Biotechnology

### Differnet Clubs in CSUSM
- CyberSEcurity Club
- Robotics CLub
- 3D Printing CLub
- Women in STEM
- Society of WOmen Engineers
- Society of Physics Students
- National Society of Black Engineers
- cStem - empowering LGBTQ+ in STEM

### Internships
What is an internship?
An internship is a period of work experince offered by a company or an official group
How do you find internship opportunites?
- Join various differnet clubs
- Use google to find out the various opportunities from differnet universities
- Check differnet emails, becaue differnet internship opportunites can be give thorugh email
- Avoid unpaid internships

### Programs
- Summer Scholars Program: This 10 week summer porgarm provies studetns with an intensive research experince together with enrichment activites aimted at career devolpment and/or preperation for graduate school. Full-time stripend is $6,000 while part-time stripend at $3,000.
- Quantam Bridge Progarm: A 4 week program 
- Other Program Opportunities

### Research at CSUM
- Cancer Cell Research
- Materials Resarch
- Studying Metgorities
- Ecologyst Researchers
- Artifical Intelligence Research

### Paying for Colledge
- Differneces between Grant and a Scholarship. Scholarship is privatley funded whereas grant is government funded.
- How to look for a scholarship? To get scholarships for virutlaly anything, 

### SCholarships and Grants
- Apply for FAFSA, student gov.
- Check student email for scholarhsip opportunities sent by the school/your 
- Google is your best friend

### Life Afte CSUSM
- After graduating, many people start workign in private industries and for the man's case he got an internship in Safari Park
- Some peopl go into graduate school.
- Higher Pay Rise to get a Masters Degree, and some companies will pay computer scientists got et a Masters Degree
- Some Universities will pay for PHD and maybe even Masters Degree

### Upcoming Events in CSUSM
- Cougar Blue Day: where You can bring your friends and your family and see if you are intersted in Cal STate San Marcos


Question 1: How do you transger from one university to another?
Answer: There are certain departments in Universities which will acommodate the process.


### STEM Activites
What I did For My STEM Activites:

Me and My group worked Hard onn creating our STEM Activity as well as having fun with my freinds

### Reflection
In Conclusion, I learned a lot about what Cal States have to offers as well as specifically Cal State San Marcos. I also learned a lot about how financing works for colledge. I got a lot of tips about how to not use loans or if you do you use loans it is importnat to use subsidizied loans because it will lower the effect in the future. They also gave us tips on how to get scholarships by different ways. I also learned about the various different programs and clubs that are offered at the Cal State San Marcos and the various majors that I can take. If I went to the school, I would most likely be taking the Software Engineering Course, Computer Engineering Course, or Computer Inofrmation Sciences.