---
toc: true
layout: base
description: Duck DNS Guide by Shaurya Goel
categories: [markdown, Week 20]
title: Duck DNS (Shaurya Goel)
---

## How does Duck DNS Work?

Duck DNS is a free dynamic DNS service that allows users to assign a domain name to a dynamic IP address. Dynamic DNS (DDNS) is a system used to map a domain name to an IP address that may change frequently, such as the IP address assigned by an ISP to a residential or small business internet connection.

Once the client program is set up, it will periodically send an update to the Duck DNS servers with your current IP address. When someone tries to access your domain name, the DNS server will resolve the domain name to your current IP address, allowing the requester to connect to your device.

Overall, Duck DNS provides a convenient way to access your home network or devices from anywhere in the world, even if your ISP assigns you a dynamic IP address

## How is Duck DNS useful for our project? Other Projects in General?

In general, Duck DNS can be useful for projects that involve remote access or control of a device, such as setting up a home security camera, remote desktop access, or hosting a website or game server from a home network. By using Duck DNS, the device or service can be accessed using a static hostname, which is more convenient than having to remember or constantly look up the device's changing IP address.

In addition, Duck DNS is easy to set up and does not require any special hardware or software. It can be configured to update the IP address automatically, making it a reliable and low-maintenance solution for dynamic IP addresses.

Overall, Duck DNS is a useful tool for any project that requires a static hostname for remote access or control of a device or service.

## Steps for Setup
- Sign up for a DuckDNS account by visiting https://www.duckdns.org/ and selecting "Create Account."
- Once you have created an account, you will be prompted to create a subdomain. Enter a unique name for your subdomain, and then click the "Add Domain" button.
- Next, you will need to download the DuckDNS client to keep your IP address updated. You can find the client at https://www.duckdns.org/install.jsp. Choose the appropriate client for your operating system.
- Once you have downloaded the client, extract the files and run the installation script.
- After installation, you will be prompted to enter your DuckDNS subdomain and token. You can find your token by logging into your DuckDNS account and clicking the "Install" tab.
- Start the DuckDNS client, and it will automatically update your IP address every time it changes. You can confirm that the client is working by checking the "Logs" tab in your DuckDNS account.
- Finally, you can use your DuckDNS subdomain to access your home network from the internet. To do this, you will need to configure your router to forward incoming requests to your local IP address.

## Video


## Kahoot
